# SQ01 Algorithms Review

## Problem Statement

Your next-door sari-sari store has a promo for a locally-produced calamansi flavored soda named CalamanSoda. For every three bottles of empty CalamanSoda returned to the store, you get one free bottle of it. The promo does not even have a limit on how many times you can return the bottles!

Being a big fan of soda but has grown tired from drinking the usual black or brown one, you have decided to take the offer. You have decided to buy N bottles of CalamanSoda and you want to know how many total number of bottles you can drink out of it while availing the promo. Suddenly, you have thought of a strategy - borrow empty soda bottles!

You have a friend that is a much greater fan of sodas than yours, and they tend to have a lot of empty CalamanSodas laying around their kitchen. So you have decided that you would ask your friend to lend you any number of empty CalamanSoda bottles to maximize the bottles you can drink. However, you need to return the same number of empty lent CalamanSodas to your friend after you have drank your share because they would like to avail of the promo, too.

Example
Suppose that you have bought N=3
 CalamanSodas. You drank all of them and returned them to get one additional bottle. Since you only have one bottle left, you cannot avail the promo anymore. Hence, the total number of CalamanSodas you can drink is four (4).

Now, suppose that you wanted to splurge and will buy N=12
 CalamanSodas. You can drink all twelve (12) bottles and return all of them promptly to get four (4) more bottles. You subsequently can drink all of them and return three (3) promptly to receive one (1) bottle. You will be left at the end with two empty bottles that will not be eligible for the promo anymore. With this arrangement, you were able to drink 17 bottles!

A visual of the arrangement is shown below. Uppercase letters indicate full bottles and lowercase letters indicate empty bottles.

> AAA BBB CCC DDD <- 12<br>
> aaa bbb ccc ddd<br>
> A   A   A   D   <-  4<br>
> a   a   a   d<br>
> A           d   <-  1<br>
> a           d<br>
> 17 bottles!

However, this is not the maximum number of bottles you can drink! Remember that you can borrow bottles from your friend, so you can try borrowing only one (1) empty CalamanSoda bottle. You now have thirteen (13) bottles. Now, you drink the twelve (12) bottles you have bought and promptly return all of them to get four (4) more bottles. You subsequently can drink all of them and return three (3) promptly to receive one (1) bottle. You should now be left at the end with two empty bottles, but remember that we have one extra empty bottle that you can use to still avail of the promo. Now, you have one (1) additional bottle! With this arrangement, you will be able to drink 18 bottles!

A visual of the arrangement is shown below.

> AAA BBB CCC DDD e <- 12<br>
> aaa bbb ccc ddd e<br>
> A   A   A   D   e <-  4<br>
> a   a   a   d   e<br>
> A           d   e <-  1<br>
> a           d   e<br>
> A                 <-  2<br>
> a<br>
>                     18 bottles!<br>

Note that for this arrangement, you borrowed one bottle from your friend. Since you are left with one bottle after it, you can definitely return the empty bottle without any issues (albeit it may be a different bottle altogether).

### Problem
Your goal is to find the maximum number of CalamanSodas you can get from N bottles while taking advantage of the promo.

#### Question 1
Consider N=11. Do you think borrowing bottles from your friend will give you extra CalamanSodas?

a. Yes

b. No

#### Question 2
Which problem solving paradigm is the best for this problem?

a. dynamic programming

b. complete search

c. greedy

d. simple math

#### Question 3
Given the problem solving paradigm that you have chosen, briefly explain how you will implement and solve the problem  as 1) a human, and 2) as a computer program. We are specifically looking for the following:

- Explanation thoroughness
- Handling of edge cases, if any

**Answer**

As a Human: To maximize the number of CalamanSodas you can drink given the promo, it involves simple arithmetic and a bit of foresight.

1. You can first, drink all N bottles
2. For every 3 empty bottes you return, you get to drink 1 more. Repeat until you're left with less than 3 empty bottles.
3. Edge Case: When you only have 2 empty bottles left, consider borrowing. This allows you to get 1 additional drink with the exact number of borrowed empty bottles
4. Calculate the total bottles you drank

As a Computer Program: To implement this algorithm, you can create a function that takes in N bottles and returns the maximum number of CalamSodas you can drink

1. Initialize a counter, total, to N (the number of bottles you have)
2. While you have more than 2 bottles, divide the number of bottles by 3 (This gives you the number of new bottles). Add the quotient to the counter
3. Set the number of bottles to the quotient plus the remainder (The bottles you have for the next round)
4. If you still have 2 bottles left at the end, considering borrowing so you could get another drink. Exchange three, drink one more, and add one to the counter
5. Return total (counter value)
6. Edge Case: If N is less than 3
   - If N is 0 or a negative number return 0
   - If N is 1, return 1 
   - If N is 2, return 3

python code:
```
    def maxSodas(N):
        if N <= 0: # edge case
            return 0 

        total = N
        while N > 2:
            newBottles = N//3
            N = (N%3) + newBottles
            total = newBottles
            
        if N == 2:
            total += 1 # Borrow a bottle
        return total
```